feat: tailwind v4 (#10773)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind.mdx

import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import tailwind from '@astrojs/tailwind';

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    tailwind({
      // Example: Allow writing nested CSS declarations
      // alongside Tailwind's syntax
      nesting: true,
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Examples

* The [Astro Tailwind Starter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-tailwindcss?on=github) gets you up and running with a base for your project that uses Tailwind for styling
* Astro's homepage uses Tailwind. Check out its [Tailwind configuration file](https://github.com/withastro/astro.build/blob/main/tailwind.config.ts) or an [example component](https://github.com/withastro/astro.build/blob/main/src/components/Checkbox.astro)
* The [Astro Ink](https://github.com/one-aalam/astro-ink), [Sarissa Blog](https://github.com/iozcelik/SarissaBlogAstroStarter), [Astro Tech Blog](https://github.com/nicdun/astro-tech-blog) and [Creek](https://github.com/robertguss/Astro-Theme-Creek) themes use Tailwind for styling
* [Browse Astro Tailwind projects on GitHub](https://github.com/search?q=%22%40astrojs%2Ftailwind%22%3A+path%3A%2Fpackage.json\&type=code) for more examples!

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: @florian-lefebvre Just checking, do any of these troubleshooting things about `@apply` still apply in v4?

Author: I think this is still relevant, although the tailwind config example isn't correct anymore: https://tailwindcss.com/docs/adding-custom-styles#adding-component-classes

---
title: '@astrojs/tailwind'
description: Learn how to use the @astrojs/tailwind integration in your Astro project.

> sidebar:
>   label: Tailwind

Reviewer 2: LGTM, less work for translators. 😄 

Two suggestions:
1. I think we can also remove the sidebar label since it's no longer in the sidebar.
```suggestion
```

2. Maybe we should also update the link `Astro’s Tailwind integration` in [Prerequisites](https://deploy-preview-10773--astro-docs-2.netlify.app/en/recipes/tailwind-rendered-markdown/#prerequisites) in `/en/recipes/tailwind-rendered-markdown/` to use the one from Tailwind instead?

Author: 1. I matched what was done for Lit, so maybe we can clean it up as well
2. You're right, we probably need to scan for any link to the tailwind integration

I'm also wondering if on the integration page, we should link to the styles page so everyone goes through the same flow

Reviewer 2: 1. Oh just nitpicking, I don't think it does anything anymore but it's not harmful. So yeah we could do that for Lit too.
2. Great call! There also some examples that use `@astrojs/tailwind` and some anchors should be renamed I think.

I checked in VSCode, the following pages uses either a link to the integration page, `Tailwind integration` as anchor or `@astrojs/tailwind` in a code snippet:
* `/en/upgrade-astro.mdx`
* `/en/guides/fonts.mdx`
* `/en/guides/integrations-guide/index.mdx`
* `/en/guides/migrate-to-astro/from-create-react-app.mdx`
* `/en/guides/migrate-to-astro/from-gatsby.mdx`
* `/en/guides/migrate-to-astro/from-nextjs.mdx`
* `/en/reference/configuration-reference.mdx` ([this one](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/configuration-reference/#integrations) should be updated in core)

There also two upgrade guides that use `@astrojs/tailwind`... (`v2` and `v3`) but not sure if we should update them...

Regarding the link, yeah it could be better if `npx astro add tailwind` takes care of all the steps for the user (only adding `@import 'tailwindcss';` is manual, right?). I don't have a strong opinion here...

This **[Astro integration][astro-integration]** brings [Tailwind's](https://tailwindcss.com/) utility CSS classes to every `.astro` file and [framework component](/en/guides/framework-components/) in your project, along with support for the Tailwind configuration file.

:::caution[Deprecation notice]

> Tailwind CSS now offers a Vite plugin and is the preferred way to use Tailwind in Astro. This integration is now provided only as a convenience for existing projects if you're unable to upgrade to the Vite plugin at this time. You may continue to use this integration until it is removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tailwind CSS now offers a Vite plugin which is the preferred way to use Tailwind 4 in Astro. This Astro integration is now provided only as a convenience for existing projects if you're unable to upgrade to the Vite plugin at this time. You may continue to use this integration until it is removed.
```

> :::caution[Deprecation notice]
> Tailwind CSS now offers a Vite plugin so this version of the integration is provided as a convenience if you're unable to upgrade to the Vite plugin at this time. Otherwise, we recommend you uninstall the integration and follow the [Tailwind documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides/astro).
> 
> From Astro 5.x.x, running `astro add tailwind` setups the Vite plugin automatically.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution[Deprecation notice]
Tailwind CSS now offers a Vite plugin and is the preferred way to use Tailwind in Astro. This integration is now provided only as a convenience for existing projects if you're unable to upgrade to the Vite plugin at this time. You may continue to use this integration until it is removed.

However, we recommend that you uninstall this integration as soon as you are able.  The  [`astro add` command](#installation) will now set up the Vite plugin for you. Or, you can follow the [Tailwind documentation for manual installation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides/astro).
:::
```
Just a quick draft with some ideas here!

> However, we recommend that you uninstall this integration as soon as you are able.  The  [`astro add` command](#installation) will now set up the Vite plugin for you. Or, you can follow the [Tailwind documentation for manual installation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides/astro).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we recommend that you uninstall this integration as soon as you are able. The  [`astro add tailwind` command](#installation) will now set up the Vite plugin for you and will no longer install this integration. Or, you can follow the [Tailwind documentation for manual installation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides/astro).
```
